---
id: cms-element-overview
title: CMS Element - Overview
sidebar_label: Overview
---

Content of each CMS page consists of `elements`. It is the smallest
building block of your content. Element can be as simple or as
complicated as you need it to be.

Before we dive deeper into the element, let's just quickly take a look
at the editor itself.

## Editor overview
Editor is a set of React components and has its own Redux store which holds the
page data and a hierarchy of elements. Whenever a new element is created,
it is inserted at the corresponding place in the data hierarchy and gets
rendered by the corresponding element plugin.

As a developer, you will not have to manually manipulate
the underlying data structure. Most of the time you will simply be dispatching
the provided actions to update or delete an element, or to enable/disable a
certain settings plugin, all from your plugin(s) code.

### Actions
Here is a list of actions you will most likely use in your plugins (these are ordinary Redux action creators):
- `togglePlugin({ name: string, params: Object })`
- `deactivatePlugin({ name: string })`
- `activateElement({ element: string })`
- `deactivateElement()`
- `updateElement({ element: Object, merge: boolean })`
- `deleteElement({ element: Object })`

Click here to see [all available editor actions](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Webiny/webiny-js/master/packages/webiny-app-cms/src/editor/actions/actions.js) and their implementation.

> More in-depth documentation will become available as we go, so feel free to get in touch with us
if you are interested in any part of the undocumented functionality. We will then be able to prioritize
our work on the docs and point you in the right direction.

### Selectors
There is also a wide range of state selectors available for you to use
in your plugins, so most likely you won't need to create your own selectors
any time soon.

Please refer to our Github for a [list of available selectors](https://github.com/Webiny/webiny-js/blob/master/packages/webiny-app-cms/src/editor/selectors/index.js).

## Anatomy of an element (and its plugins).
Element is a concept represented by 2 plugins. One serves for content
editing purposes, the other one only for rendering.

### Editor plugin
Plugin of type `cms-element` is used by the page editor. This plugin
can contain quite a few properties (we'll look at them in details in
the next chapter) and contains all the logic and mechanics of creating
content in the editor.

Editor plugin Flow type looks like this:
```js
type ElementPluginType = PluginType & {
    toolbar?: {
        // Element title in the toolbar.
        title?: string,
        // Element group this element belongs to.
        group?: string,
        // A function to render an element preview in the toolbar.
        preview?: () => Node
    },
    // Help link
    help?: string,
    // Array of element settings plugin names.
    settings?: Array<string>,
    // A function to create an element data structure.
    create: ({ options: Object }) => Object,
    // A function to render an element in the editor.
    render: ({ theme: CmsThemeType, element: ElementType }) => Node,
    // A function to check if an element can be deleted.
    canDelete?: ({ element: ElementType }) => boolean,
    // Executed when another element is dropped on
    // the drop zones of current element.
    onReceived?: ({
        store: Store,
        source: ElementType | { type: string },
        target: ElementType,
        position: number | null
    }) => void,
    // Executed when an immediate child element is deleted.
    onChildDeleted?: ({ element: ElementType, child: ElementType }) => void
};
```


### Render plugin
Plugin of type `cms-render-element` is used to render the element's
content and is significantly simpler than the editor plugin.

Render plugin Flow type looks like this:
```js
export type RenderElementPluginType = PluginType & {
    // Name of the cms-element plugin this render plugin is handling.
    element: string,
    render: ({ theme: CmsThemeType, element: ElementType }) => Node
};
```

### Element data structure
When an element is dropped into the editor, it creates a corresponding data structure.
The data structure looks like this:
```js
export type ElementType = {
    id: string,
    path: string,
    type: string,
    elements: Array<Object>,
    data: Object
};
```

`id` and `path` are generated by the editor. `id` is a unique element id
generated for internal use. `path` is an index based string that points
to your element in the editor data hierarchy, e.g. `0.1.0.2`.

`type` will correspond to the name of the plugin that created this
element (this comes from the `create` function of the editor plugin).

`data` key contains your arbitrary data and settings for your element.

`elements` is only ever used if your element
contains drop zones for other elements to be dropped on. In that case
you need to handle the received element with the `onReceived` callback.

So far, the only 3 elements that have drop zones are `block`, `row` and `column`.
If you are interested in how they work, please refer to the corresponding
plugins on Github in the [element plugins folder](https://github.com/Webiny/webiny-js/tree/master/packages/webiny-app-cms/src/editor/plugins/elements).