---
id: project-structure
title: Project Structure
sidebar_label: Project Structure
---

After creation, your project should look like this:

```
new-project
├── api/
│   ├── .serverless/
│   ├── .env.json
│   └── serverless.yml
├── apps/
│   ├── .serverless/
│   ├── admin/
│   ├── site/
│   └── serverless.yml
├── packages/
│   ├── project-utils/
│   └── theme/
├── .env.json
├── .gitignore
├── .prettierrc.js
├── README.md
├── package.json
└── webiny.js
```

It is set up as a `monorepo` so you can easily manage your packages, for both API and React, from within the same repo. This is the reason we use `yarn` - its workspace management makes working with monorepos really enjoyable.

A Webiny project consists of an `API` and `React apps`. Those are located in `api` and `apps` folders, respectively.
You should not rename those two folders as our CLI counts on those to exist. 

## `api`

This folder contains the serverless template file, `serverless.yml`, and an environment config file, `.env.json`, which contains as many environments as you need. Where's the code? The code is generated by our serverless components at deploy time and you'll be able to see the generated code after your first deploy in the `.webiny` folder.

Adding new APIs is a matter of editing the template file and adding new components and plugins. More on this in separate articles about API development.

## `apps`
This folder also contains a serverless template file to deploy your apps. The `admin` and `site` apps are regular React apps created using [create-react-app](https://create-react-app.dev). However, we use [rescripts](https://github.com/harrysolovay/rescripts) to override some things in the original `react-scripts` without ejecting. Don't worry - no magic here. The package responsible for all the customization is located in your project, in `packages/project-utils` and you can change it as you wish.

### Why `rescripts`? 
`react-scripts` package does not support monorepos, so to enable our apps to resolve packages in the monorepo, and transpile them on-fly, we had to override some parameters. There's more to this package, so dive in and take a look at it yourself.

## `packages`
This folder is for you to use for whatever custom packages you may add. By default, it contains the `theme` package, which is used by both `admin` and `site` apps, and the aforementioned `project-utils`.

> NOTE: when you add new packages, makes sure you link them with your monorepo by running `yarn` in the root of your project. This will create symlinks to the `node_modules` and your packages will be accessible from anywhere within the project.

## Other files
- `.env.json` - contains environment variables that are used when you deploy both `api` and `apps`, so you can set shared variables in this file. This file is loaded first, then the `api/.env.json` values are merged into it (same goes for `apps/.env.json` in case you have it; by default, it is not needed).
- `webiny.js` - this file is used by our CLI to get the location of React apps. If you add more apps to `apps` folder, make sure you also add it to the `webiny.js` file. We may add more configuration options to this file in the future. 

