---
id: project-structure
title: Project Structure
sidebar_label: Project Structure
---

In this article we'll look at the project structure and explain the responsibilities of certain files.

Once your [project is set up](/docs/get-started/quick-start.md), it will look like this:

```
├── api
│   ├── apolloGateway
│   ├── databaseProxy
│   ├── files
│   ├── formBuilder
│   ├── headless
│   ├── i18n
│   ├── pageBuilder
│   ├── resources.js
│   ├── security
│   └── webiny.config.js
├── apps
│   ├── admin
│   ├── resources.js
│   └── site
├── babel.config.js
├── jest.config.base.js
├── jest.config.js
├── lerna.json
├── package.json
├── scripts
│   └── linkPackages.js
├── tsconfig.build.json
├── tsconfig.json
├── webiny.root.js
└── yarn.lock
```

It is set up as a [monorepo](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monorepo) so you can easily manage your packages, for both API and React, from within the same repo. This is the reason we use `yarn` - its workspace management makes working with monorepos really enjoyable.

A Webiny project consists of an `API` and `React apps`. Those are located in `api` and `apps` folders, respectively.

## `api`

This folder contains a `resources.js` file which is used by the Webiny CLI to deploy your API. It also contains an environment config file, `.env.json`, with as many environments as you need for your storage bucket and your GraphQL setup. The `webiny.config.js` file is used to hook together the `apps/admin` and `apps/site` with api deployment. Where's the code? The code is generated by our serverless components at deploy time and you'll be able to see the generated code after your first deploy in the `.webiny` folder.

Adding new APIs is a matter of editing the `resources.js` file and adding new components and plugins. There will be more on this in separate articles about API development.

## `apps`

The `admin` and `site` apps are regular React apps created using [create-react-app](https://create-react-app.dev). However, we use [rescripts](https://github.com/harrysolovay/rescripts) to override some things in the original `react-scripts` without ejecting. Don't worry - no magic here. The file responsible for all the customization is located in your project, in `admin/webiny.config.js` as well as `site/webiny.config.js` and you can change them as you wish.

### Why `rescripts`?

`react-scripts` package does not support monorepos, so to enable our apps to resolve packages in the monorepo, and transpile them on-fly, we had to override some parameters. There's more to this package, so dive in and take a look at it yourself.

## Other files

- `.babel.node.js` - contains your babel presets and any plugins you wish to use for your Node application.
- `.babel.react.js` - contains your babel presets and any plugins you wish to use for your React application.
- `.env.json` - contains environment variables that are used when you deploy both `api` and `apps`, so you can set shared variables in this file. This file is loaded first, then the `api/.env.json` values are merged into it (same goes for `apps/.env.json` in case you have it; by default, it is not needed).
- `.prettierrc.js` - contains presets to prettify your typescript code. These can be overridden.
- `babel.config.js` - configures your project to use babelrc (NOTE: this is for jest tests only).
- `jest.config.base.js` - contains the presets for running jest tests.
- `jest.config.js` - contains configuration for running jest tests.
- `lerna.json` - contains preset for creating your own monorepo without forcing you to publish to npm or other registries.
- `tsconfig.build.json` - contains base configuration for developing using typescript.
- `tsconfig.json` - extends `tsconfig.build.json` and you can override base configurations in this file.
- `webiny.root.js` - this file is used by our CLI to get the plugins you are using for this project. We may add more configuration options to this file in the future.
